Now let's implement the user page functionality.
So this user page will be loading user from back and then displaying that user user's information.
And again, we will start with the test, but this is almost going to be identical with the Activate
page.
So I will do something like this.
I will just copy all the tests and activate component and we will refactor for the user page.
So let's display the karma window first and opening the user component spec.
This is the the the test file automatically generated by the client, but I'm going to copy activate
component specters.
Here in this one, we have the tests like sending the request to BEC.
And as soon as the component is mounted, we are making an API request backend and in this user base
we will do the same thing.
We will get the user's data from backend and we have cases like the success case and fail cases, so
there can be that user or not.
And based on that, we will show info on the page and also we will display spinner.
And again, since we are dependent on the routing functionality, we will be set the routing through
the the our custom activated root observable here.
So we have the same thing just copying everything in this activate component and and just pasting right
here.
So the target component is not the activate component, but but it's going to be a user component and
let's replace activate component with the user component.
Now the errors are gone and let's also update the describe here and let's go one by one.
So just commenting out to the other three tests and let's start with the first one it sends.
Let's change the description here.
It sends a request to get user data.
So for the the URL, we are going to go like let's say the user one idea of that user user one and we
are going to make a request to backend and that URL will be like this.
We will send a guest request to API one zero users and user ID and we are capturing all the requests
going to this endpoint.
And here we are just counting that that must be one request going.
So this is the first test, let's say this one.
And this is failing because at the moment there is no subscription.
We are calling this subscriber, but the user component is not subscribing to anything at the moment.
Therefore, we don't have any reference to the subscription function coming from the component.
We have this observable, but again, we didn't call the the params to subscribe it.
Therefore there is no subscription.
And when we try to call the next of this function, it is failing.
So let's fix it again.
We will use the activate component as reference.
So here in the init part, we were subscribing to the params and we were calling the user service to
activate the user.
But this time we will have separate function for loading the users data and we will call it.
So let's open the user component.
And so we need the we will need both user service and activate to draft here.
So just copying this.
And pasting into this constructor.
Let's import them importing the user service as well.
Moving this to the next line like this and just copying the in its path here.
Pacing in this one.
At the moment we don't have the the tracking for the the API request, but we will.
So just commenting out this part now we are going to take it again.
This is going to be ID because if you check the browser module here and just like to activate, we name
the dynamic part we set the name for.
The dynamic part is ID and we do that in user part as well.
So we are taking the ID and we will pass it to a function if we don't have that function yet.
But it will be something like this.
Let's say get user buy ID and let's open the user service so we will have a function, get user buy
ID here which will be taking the ideas parameter which is string.
Then we are going to call patient IP client.
This time we will send the get request back and is looking for a get request to this end point API one
zero users then adding the ID.
So this is the the function for loading user and this is the component using this function for loading
that user saving all the changes.
And the tests are passing.
And if we scroll down here, we will see the user component.
And it sends requests to get user data.
So we are sending the request at the moment.
Now let's add the next test.
In this one eight space, we were displaying the activation success alert.
But this time, instead of showing an alert, we will display the user user object user data.
So again, let's firstly update the description.
So it displays user name on page one user is found.
So we are.
Again.
Let's go with the ID one.
And we are making requests to the.
And point this one.
And then from back we are expecting a payload like this one.
We are looking for a user object and user has the ID username which will be user one and emailed fields
user one it's mail call so this API will return this data back.
Then we are updating the UI and then we will check the visibility of this username and and we will display
this, this username in a component in the next amendment like H three, let's name it as header.
So this header text content will be containing user one.
So let's save this one.
This is the test.
So this one is failing because at the moment we we don't have this header and we are not doing anything
about the response we are receiving from back end.
So in this response now we are going to get the the return data and we will take the data.
And this data is a user object we are looking for.
So let's have a variable for this.
We have a user object here and the type of that user is this one, the type we defined, it has the
ID, username and email and the TypeScript compiler is showing this error because it's not initialized.
Let's say this is optional.
So we either load the user or if we don't have the user then it means we have a failure.
We will display an alert based on the results.
So the user is going to be the data for the user will be received from this this API request we will
assign this body is assigned this data to this user like this, but there is this error because we have
the type for the user, but the data type is any so we can cast it to user right here.
So we have the user now and for displaying username, we can update the user user component and we can
display the H three.
This is the element we are going to add the user data and we can show this conditionally by using the
engine.
If if we have user, then this is going to be having the info of users username.
So let's save these changes.
And the test is passing.
And let's see it on browser.
Now we are seeing this user one, but let's go back to home and click to a user three and we are seeing
user three and if I click user two, we are seeing user two and if I go to like a page user 23 we are
having this user 23 But if we have a case like this one, there is 25 users in the application, but
if you go like 230, so we have nothing and this is bringing our next requirement and in the next test
we will show failure.
Like we will show an alert message saying there is no that user.
So let's update the test description here.
It displays error when user not found.
So let's go with different ID for this one.
Let's say this is going to be two and the path will be
this one.
To now is a response to Beck and will be returning a message like this.
So the responsibility is not important, but we can hear a message saying user not found, we are not
going to use it and the status is 404 and the status text will be not found.
And then we are waiting for UI to be updated and then we will check an alert component to be visible
again.
We will use the alert with the danger style to indicate there is a failure and as a message let's display
this thing.
User not found.
So saving this.
So this one is failing and let's fix it.
Now we need to keep track of the overall status so we can have the same activation status variable property
here.
So we can say it's not activation status, but let's say status so it can be success, fail or in progress.
At the moment we are using this user user's data.
Like if we have the data that means it is success, but we can have a more generic overall approach
and we can say this will never be null, so we wouldn't be checking this thing.
So right here we can say the let's say this status is going to be success in this case and for this
one, it is going to be failed.
So we have this status now.
Let's update the template.
So now we don't need to check the user, but we can check if status is equal to sexes.
And if it is not sexist and we will display an alert and let's open the activate component template
right here.
We were displaying the activation failure.
But now we are going to display.
Status.
If status is failed, we will display this one and the message will be and we are creating it in the
test user not found this one.
Saving all the changes.
And the tests are passing.
And in browser we can see there is error.
So like if we go to user one, we see the user one.
But if you go like user 100, which doesn't exist, we are seeing this error.
Now let's add the final test, which is displaying the spinner during the API.
Also it displays during user get request.
So we will go to user one and let's update the URL.
It's going to be
user one and we are querying the status element to be visible.
Then we are returning the response back.
Let's return the success body.
Like this.
Then we are.
Looking for the status to be falsely saving it.
And in test console, we see this test is failing.
Now we are going to keep track of the API status like in progress as well.
So here we will set the status to in progress.
And when it is in progress, we will display Spinnaker.
So again, opening the Activate component and just copying the span from this one and pasting here.
So when the status is in progress, then we will display the spinner saving it.
And tests are passing and if we test it on browser, once again, let's open the developer tools and
let's go to network tab.
Just clearing the console.
And let's go to homepage and let's load the network and let's click to user.
And here we see the spinner is visible before the request received a response.
So we completed the implementation.
But let's display this user a bit better.
We will do similar thing, like we will display the user with a default profile image.
So we will have a new component to do this and it will be similar to this user list item, but the styling
is going to be a bit different and let's do that.
So for that, I'm just going to create a new component.
Energy generated component, and this component will be used in the user.
So under the user folder and the component name will be profile card.
And we don't need test for this one.
So the component is created.
Let's use it.
Component is profile card selector.
Is this one a profile card?
And we are going to use it right here in the user component.
So let's say we have app profile card.
Here at the moment we don't have anything in it, but we will pass the props.
The user object is a prop twist to it, just like for the user list item component.
So it's going to be taking the user.
And pacing here.
This is the user type and this is the input for this component.
And in the profile card component, HTML, we will have the markup and it's going to be like this.
We will have a diff, this is going to be a card.
And so let's say these first.
So at the moment we only have a card, but the content is empty, therefore it is visible like a line
and we will have another div in this one and it's going to be a card card header.
And in it we can display the image and the image will be the source will be as its profile PNG saving
it.
The sizes are going to be let's set the width and height is 200.
Like this and also move the content to the center.
And we can do that for the whole cart by setting it in the relative text center so it moves the image
to center.
Let's also style this one.
We will use class of bootstraps, which are a rounded circle.
And let's also add shadow.
So the image is visible, but also we need to display the username.
So let's have another card component here, which is card.
So we have card header, but we also have card body and in it we will display the user username.
At the moment we don't we don't have the the property.
We are not passing the property to the profile card.
If we check the user component here, we are not passing any props.
So let's pass the props.
We are going to set the user prop and it's going to be the user property in user components.
So basically we are passing this one is a prop to the profile card.
Like this.
Let's save it.
And in profile component, now we have the user and we can just display this user's username saving
it and the user username is visible right here.
Now we don't need this.
H three.
Here we are using this a profile card for showing the user info and we will be conditionally showing
this profile card.
If the status is success, then we are going to show the profile card and let's save this one.
Now we have added a new component and when we add the new component, let's make sure the tests are
not failing because of we didn't declare that component in the test yet.
So opening the karma first here we see it is failing because we don't have the the component declaration.
So opening the user component and let's declare.
Profile cards component saving it.
And here we see the tests are passing.
So we completed the implementation of the user page and we completed the flow.
So from the user list we are able to click end user and corresponding users page is opened.